USING THIS RULES:
⚙️ GLOBAL AI DEVELOPER RULES (FRONTEND + BACKEND)
(DO NOT let it auto-clean the project):
🔒 "Do not clean up or delete any files. I want to preserve all current components, styles, pages, and assets exactly as they are.
🧠 GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Never Guess. Always Derive From Schema or Codebase.
Pull table names, fields, and types from Supabase schema or FastAPI models. Never assume structure.

Enforce DRY & SRP Principles.
Avoid repetition. Every file/component/function must have a single clear responsibility.

No Placeholder Logic.
Every button, modal, route, or feature must work fully. No “coming soon,” commented-out stubs, or static data.

Always Check for Existing Hooks, Components, or Endpoints First.
Never create duplicate hooks/components. Use useCustomer, useLead, etc., and extend only when necessary.

🧩 FRONTEND RULES (React + Supabase)
📦 COMPONENTS & HOOKS
Use Typed Hooks: All Supabase hooks must be strongly typed (TS) and use RLS-safe queries.

Naming Convention:

Hooks: use[Entity] (e.g., useEstimateLineItems)

Components: PascalCase by feature (EstimateBuilder, InvoicePreview)

Forms Must Be Fully Controlled

Use useState or react-hook-form.

Validate on blur/change.

Disable submit button when invalid or submitting.

🔍 DATA FETCHING & STATE
No Hardcoded Data in UI — Ever.

Fetch from Supabase via hooks.

Show skeleton loaders while loading.

Handle all error states gracefully.

Global Toast + Error Boundaries

All mutations must show toast feedback.

Wrap screens with error boundaries (GlobalErrorHandler).

📲 RESPONSIVENESS & UX
Mobile-First Design

All layouts must work on mobile viewports.

Use grid/flex consistently.

Avoid horizontal scroll on small screens.

Modals Must Be Reusable

Don’t re-create a modal for every entity. Use generic modal with dynamic form content.

Avoid Premature Abstractions

Only extract components when reused ≥2 times.

Avoid over-engineered HOCs unless justified.

🛠️ BACKEND RULES (FastAPI + Supabase)
🧬 MODELING
Always Sync FastAPI → Supabase Schema

Keep SQLModel models in sync with Supabase tables.

Validate each model using Pydantic on both input and output.

Use Enum Fields Where Possible

e.g., status, priority, type, etc.

Enforce these in both schema and API validation.

Define All Relationships with FK + Backrefs

Use Relationship(...) in FastAPI models.

Create Supabase FK constraints in SQL migration files.

🔐 AUTH & RLS
NEVER Bypass RLS in Production

Every query must obey row-level security policies.

Use auth.uid() inside Supabase RLS SQL.

All Mutations Must Log to activity_logs

Log CRUD action, entity_type, entity_id, and user_id.

Use UUID validation before logging.

⚠️ ERROR HANDLING
Always Return Standardized Error Format

json
Copy
Edit
{
  "code": "ERROR_CODE",
  "message": "Human-readable message",
  "trace_id": "uuid"
}
Log full trace internally for debugging.

Tests Are Mandatory

Minimum: 3 unit tests per API route

Test: happy path, invalid input, permission error

🚀 DEPLOYMENT/PERFORMANCE
No Unused Imports or Dead Code
Use a linter/formatter that removes unused vars.

No Inline Styles or Raw CSS
Use Tailwind. Stick to the design system.

No Client-Side Only Auth Checks
Auth logic must be replicated server-side (via Supabase RLS or API auth middleware).

✅ COMPLETION CHECKLIST (PER MODULE)
Every screen/module must:

 Render live Supabase data (no mocks)

 Support full CRUD + filter/search

 Include responsive layout + mobile tests

 Include tests for all mutations

 Log actions to activity_logs

 Include dark/light mode support

 Be accessible (keyboard nav, alt tags, ARIA)

🔐 AI DEVELOPER FINAL RULE
Do not deploy or submit any code unless every element has been verified against schema, tested for all edge cases, and validated for security, UX, and logic integrity.

 User Rules for the Structure & Backend (Global AI Agent Behaviors)
These rules apply to YOU as the AI agent, guiding how you work across the entire project.

Project Awareness & Context
Always begin by reading PLANNING.md for full system context, goals, constraints, and architecture.

Reference TASK.md before starting any work; add new tasks only when missing or discovered.

Never assume requirements—ask if unsure.

Modularity & File Management
Never create or edit any file exceeding 500 lines; split into feature-based modules/helpers.

Use consistent, logical naming and folder structure as described in PLANNING.md.

All code changes must follow existing project architecture and conventions unless instructed otherwise.

Task-Driven Development
Only make changes specifically requested, or approved after diagnostic review.

After any change, update TASK.md immediately—marking tasks complete and logging discovered sub-tasks.

Flag (but do not implement) potential improvements or optimizations unless directly approved.

Testing & Reliability
For each new feature, MANDATORILY create or update Pytest unit tests: one normal, one edge, one failure case.

Place all tests in /tests, mirroring the structure of main app modules.

Never push changes without tests for all new logic.

Language, Style & Validation
Use Python exclusively for backend logic.

Adhere to PEP8, with Black formatting and type hints.

Use pydantic for validation, FastAPI for APIs, SQLAlchemy/SQLModel for ORM.

Docstrings required for every function/class—Google style.

All changes must be reviewed for clarity and explainability (comment anything non-obvious).

Documentation & Communication
Update README.md when features, dependencies, or setup change.

Use # Reason: inline comments for complex/critical logic.

Never hallucinate code or use unverified libraries; check file paths/modules before referencing.

Security & Compliance
Never touch user/role permissions, sensitive data, or integrations unless specifically authorized.

Only perform changes explicitly approved for security-sensitive features (auth, payments, encryption).

Project Rules for CRM Structure & Backend (Specific for Attached Project)
These rules guide how you address the specific missing features and incomplete implementations in this CRM.

Review & Diagnostic Pass
DO NOT CHANGE: UI, UX, or feature logic unless explicitly authorized.

Perform systematic, feature-by-feature reviews (file-by-file if necessary).

For each module (e.g., Invoices, Documents, Calendar, Reports), list:

What works (fully functional)

What’s missing/incomplete (any broken, partial, or stubbed functionality)

Log all findings in a comprehensive diagnostic report (plain markdown preferred).

Feature Implementation Workflow (When Approved)
For each authorized feature:

Read the latest PLANNING.md and TASK.md for constraints.

Start with backend: database schema, API endpoints, business logic.

Only after backend is stable, add or update frontend as per current architecture.

Each module must include:

Database models (SQLAlchemy/SQLModel)

Pydantic schemas for validation

FastAPI routes with proper typing and docstrings

Unit tests (in /tests)

Data validation (with descriptive errors)

Full CRUD unless otherwise specified

For integrations (e.g., Supabase, QuickBooks, Twilio):

Only use official SDKs/libraries

Follow security and compliance requirements from global rules

Always validate connectivity and error handling

Quality & Optimization
Minimize memory overhead: avoid large in-memory objects, use async where appropriate.

Optimize for fast cold/hot starts (keep code lean, avoid unnecessary imports).

Ensure code can be reviewed and understood by a mid-level developer.

All new code must pass linting, formatting, and tests before submission.

Persistent State & Data Flow
All state (filters, searches, dashboards) must persist to the database—never just local/browser memory.

Ensure all new features are mobile-responsive and fully functional on all supported devices (when working on frontend).

Reporting & Follow-Up
Every time a new missing feature is diagnosed, log it under “Discovered During Work” in TASK.md.

Before starting any new implementation, confirm that no related critical issues remain unresolved.